A team of scientists at the Chinese Academy of Sciences have researched how droplets are dispersed in different environments to understand more about how COVID-19 is transmitted. While countries across the globe have enforced some kind of social distancing restrictions for most of the year, scientists continue to investigate how the virus is transmitted to control the pandemic, which is still seeing hundreds of thousands of new cases reported daily. The team, based in China, has found that when a person coughs while walking through a corridor, they introduce water droplets into the air that form a trail, traveling around the persons body as water would move around a speeding boat. The team referred to this pattern of water droplets as a re-circulation bubble, which then forms a trail that lingers behind them as they walk, following them at roughly waist height. This trail of droplets, if produced by someone infected with COVID-19, puts those walking behind the person at an increased risk of contracting the virus. Further to this, the team found that flow patterns we found are strongly related to the shape of the human body, one of the papers authors, Xiaolei Yang, continued, at 2 meters downstream, the wake is almost negligible at mouth height and leg height but is still visible at waist height. After determining the airflow patterns, the researchers were able to model the dispersal of the droplets, following them from their origin at the mouth. They found that the shape of the environment had a dramatic effect on droplet dispersal. They concluded that the droplets dispersed in one of two modes. The first mode seeing the droplets move from the mouth to float steadily behind them, forming a bubble of droplets that hang far behind the person. The second mode involves the droplets attaching themself closely to the persons back, floating behind them like a tail as they move. Published this month in the journal Physics of Fluids, from the American Institute of Physics, the paper published by the Chinese team reveals how they used computer simulations to predict patterns of airflow and droplet dispersal in different scenarios. The team concludes how the shape and size of the space influence these patterns. The studys findings highlight how walking quickly behind an infected adult in a narrow corridor is a scenario that increases the risk of transmission, particularly for children who are closer to the height of the trail of droplets as they fall through the air. In a discussion in the House of Representatives, Oct. 2, 1918, on a bill to provide an additional building for the United States Public Health Service, Representative Bankhead paid the following tribute to Surgeon-General Gorgas:And, in this connection, Mr. Chairman, it just occurred to me that in a very few weeks, on account of reaching the age limit, the great Surgeon-General of the United States, Gen. William C. Gorgas, will be retired from his present position. Welcome to this weeks edition of Healthcare Career Insights. This weekly roundup highlights healthcare career-related articles culled from across the Web to help you learn whats next. Is upcoding a patients condition unethical? Is it okay to become romantically involved with a patient? In a recent survey, physicians answer a host of questions about the ethics of practicing medicine. Money, Patients, Amusement and pleasant surprises and the laughter they can trigger add texture to the fabric of daily life, writes Janet M. Gibson, PhD, who explores the science underlying how laughing improves our physical and emotional well being. No joke, folks Laughing is seriously good for your mind and your body. Rates of burnout remain high among physicians, and the pandemic has only compounded the problem. One doctor shares how to identify the telltale symptoms of burnout and how to combat them. Overcoming physician burnout in the midst of a global pandemic. What in store for healthcare technology? Experts provide their predictions for the new year. 7 predictions for what lies ahead for health tech in 2021 healthcare. Rural areas often face a physician shortage, but the pandemic has now made practicing rural medicine more desirable. 5 ways COVID-19 has changed rural recruiting for the better. 5 ways COVID-19 has changed rural recruiting for the better.